---
title: Intro to Git
description: git
categories:
  - git
tags:
toc: true
toc_sticky: true
comments: true
excerpt: |
  Git commands
# header:
#   image: /assets/images/logos/logo-text-8c3ba8a6.svg
---

# Generative Models

`git log` displays the overall history of a project or file.

`git annotate` file shows who made the last change to each line of a file and when.
1. The first eight digits of the hash, 04307054.
2. The author, Rep Loop.
3. The time of the commit, 2017-09-20 13:42:26 +0000.
4. The line number, 1.
5. The contents of the line, # Seasonal Dental Surgeries (2017) 2017-18

`git show` with a commit ID shows the changes made in a particular commit.

`git diff` ID1..ID2 To see the changes between two commits

`git clean -n` will show you a list of files that are in the repository

`git clean -f` will then delete those files.

`git config --list` [options] To see what the settings are
--system: settings for every user on this computer.
--global: settings for every one of your projects.
--local: settings for one specific project.

$ `git config` --global core.name "Me"
$ `git config` --global core.email "me@company.com"

If you make a mistake and accidentally stage a file you shouldn't have, you can unstage the additions with `git reset HEAD`

`git checkout -- [<filename>]`
will discard the changes that have not yet been staged. The double dash -- must be there to separate the `git checkout [<filename>]` command from the names of the file or files you want to recover (switch to branch ).)

`git reset` will unstage files that you previously staged using git add

`git log -2 [<file_name>]`to list the last two changes to that file.

To list all of the branches in a repository, you can run the command `git branch`. The branch you are currently in will be shown with a `*` beside its name.
